In this video we’re going to make our books-list
component the main page of our application.
Then we’ll add in some new data in order
to demonstrate data-binding.
So right now, our main page is blank, its
just displaying our navbar – we’ll change
that by adding our books-list details below.
Lets start off by opening our books-list typescript
file inside of the books folder and create
a new component.
We’ll begin by exporting a class named BooksListComponent.
Then we’ll add our component decorator.
It will have a selector since we’ll be using
this as a directive and the name will be bs-books-list.
Next, we’ll add in our templateUrl.
Which is going to be our file books-list.component.html.
And since we’re referencing another file
we need to also set our moduleId as module.id.
Next, we’ll import Component from angular
core.
With our component setup, all we have to do
now is add it to our appModule file.
So we’ll open our app.module.ts file and
include our component inside our declarations.
And then we just need to add it to our list
of imports.
Now I’m able to use my books-list component
as a directive inside of my AppComponent.
So what I can do is just open up my app.component.html
file and then add in my books-list selector
to the bottom like this.
Now I can save these files and go back into
my application.
And now you should see our books list component
appearing right below our navigation menu.
Ok, great.
We’ve added our books list to the main page
but we haven’t done any kind of data binding.
To start with lets open up our books-list
html file.
Here you can see we’ve hard-coded in 6 books.
I’m going to add one more of these books
to the top in order to show you data binding.
I’ll just copy from and paste from column-md-4
are.
Lets now create some new data to work with
in our component.
We’ll start off by defining an imageWidth
which is a number and set it to 100.
This will be what we used for our property
binding.
Now lets add in a few book specific properties.
We’ll start out with a bookAuthor is of
type string and equal to Tom Jones.
Then bookTitle of type string is War and Peace
2.
bookPrice also of type string is going to
be set to 29.95.
And bookDescription of type string is book
of historical fiction.
bookReviews of type number is 15.
And finally bookImgUrl is of type string and
is set to the location of my image in relation
to my index.html file.Now lets go in and add
our properties inside of our template.
To do so we just need to change our hardcoded
text here to display our properties we just
defined.
We’ll do this using interpolation.
First we’ll set our price, then the title,
then our author, and then our reviews.
We’ll finish off our 1-way binding example
now by testing out property binding.
And to do this we’ll just add brackets around
our image source and then set it equal to
our bookImageUrl.
And we’ll also use property binding to specify
the width of this particular image.
So I can say style.width.px which is just
an inline style definition wrapped in brackets
in order to make it data bound is equal to
the property we defined called imageWidth.
Lets now save this file and on refresh we
should see a new row with the book properties
we defined as well as our image a little bit
smaller then the others since we specified
it to be only be 100 pixels in width.